So, we actually covered an instance of
a p-value previously in the class, and
I wanted to go through it again now
that we know what p-values are.
So, suppose we're going to think
of gender assignment for kids,
that we're going to think of this for
a specific couple as if it's a coin flip.
Now, there's a lot of complexity to this
problem, and we're going to reduce it, but
let's just assume that it's a coin flip.
And what we're wondering,
because you have a friend that has, out of
eight kids, had seven girls, whether or
not the probability that that
coin lands on girl, right?
Let's say p is the probability
of having a girl
is equal to 0.5 versus greater than 0.5.
So the null hypothesis
is H0:p equal to 0.5.
And the alternative is
Ha:p greater than 0.5.
Well, under the null hypothesis,
we want to calculate the probability
of getting evidence as or more extreme.
Now, we don't know what a test, the test
statistic is in this case, but the most
logical one is just to count the number
of girls out of the, out of the eight.
So, seven or eight would be as or
more extreme than was actually observed,
so the p value calculation is
the binomial calculation for
7 plus the binomial calculation for 8,
under the null hypothesis where p is 0.5.
That works out to be about 3.5%.
I also go through the calculation here,
where I do pbinom instead of directly
plugging into the binomial formula,
and, of course, you get the same number.
We, if we were testing that hypothesis,
we would reject at a 5% level.
We would reject at a 4% level, but
we would not reject at
an type 1 error rate of 3%.
Now I would mention on this
specific problem, it's not obvious
what the two-sided p-value is,
so I'll give you a simple trick.
And the simple trick, in this case, is
to simply, if you wanted to test whether
0.5 versus p different from 0.5, then you
just calculate the two one-sided p values.
In this case, the probability of being 7
or larger would be one one-sided p value,
and the probability of being 7 or smaller
would be the other one-sided p-values.
You take those two one-sided p values, you
take the smaller one, and you double it.
And that's the procedure for
getting a two-sided p value in these
binomial, exact binomial calculations.
Let's go through a poisson example.
So suppose that a hospital has
an infection rate of 10 infections per 100
person days at risk, for
a rate of 0.1 infections per person day at
risk during their last monitoring period.
And, we want to assume
that the rate of 0.05
infections per person day at
risk is an important benchmark.
If the rate goes above that
they would implement some
quality control procedures, let's say.
But you don't want to just have this,
this these expensive quality
control procedures go into place
just because of random fluctuation.
So you'd like to formally test
this hypothesis, accounting for
the uncertainty in the data in here
we're going to assume that the count,
the number of infections is Poisson.
Well, the null hypothesis then
is that lambda's 0.05 versus
the alternative that lambda is 0.,
greater that 0.05.
Or given that we're specifically talking
about 100 person days at risk for
this particular monitoring period, we
could think of this as the null hypothesis
is that the, the rate times 100 is 5,
versus the rate times
100 is greater than 5.
So what we want to know is, if in fact
the rate is 0.05 having been monitored for
100 person days at risk,
what's the probability of obtaining 10 or
more infections.
Okay, so this is a Poisson probability,
we want the upper tail,
so remember this little quirk of R.
If you want the upper tail and
you're doing a discreet distribution,
you actually have to drop
the number down by one.
So we're going to, P-P-O-I-S.
So, ppois, for the ppois on probability.
We want to put in 9 because we want
the upper tail and because of this
issue that it does strictly greater
than for the upper direction.
Then the Poisson rate is 0.05 times
the 100 person days at risk, so 5.
And then we want to specify lower.tail
equals false, to make sure that we don't
get 9 and fewer, but we want strictly
greater than 9, which is 10 or more.
And that will give us
our realm of p-value.
So what is this probability?
This is the probability of obtaining 10 or
more infections if, in fact, the true
rate of infections we've should've seen
on a 100 person days at risk is 5, okay?
And it turns out that that's
a relatively low probability.
It's unlikely for
us to have seen as many as 10 infections
for a 100 person days at risk.
So only 3% chance of that occurring,
if, in fact,
the real infection was 5 for
a 100 person days at risk.
So this hospital perhaps should execute
those quality control procedures.
So hopefully what you've gotten out of
this lecture, is that the way that you
calculate a p value, is you calculate
the probability of obtaining
data as or more extreme than you actually
obtained in favor of the alternative,
where the probability calculation
is done under the null.
And all the p values are done this way and
I think what we, what we saw was we saw
the the kind of formal rules that you
could execate, execute in the z and
the t test which are, are kind of easy,
but then we our way through some of these
other examples like the binomial
example and the Poisson example.